# InterFAX PHP Library

This file provides more detail as to how to install the Interfax PHP library in a project.

## Standard installation

The standard approach is to use the composer dependency manager to add the library to your project requirements:

```bash
composer require interfax/interfax
```

## Standalone installation

Many projects may not use composer to manage their dependencies. In these circumstances, it's possible to include the library
as a self contained dependency. The following steps will allow you to do this.

1. Clone the Interfax PHP repo into your project.
1. Inside the Interfax PHP directory, download composer.
1. Run composer to download the dependencies for the Interfax library.
1. Back in your main project file(s), include the autoload file generated by composer to include the library and its dependencies.
1. Follow the documentation to use the library as normal.

### Example project

Assuming a simple project for Acme Corp that consists of a single ```index.php``` file.

#### Download the library

```sh
cd acme-corp
git clone https://github.com/interfax/interfax-php.git
cd interfax-php
```

#### Setup Composer

Assuming composer is not already installed globally, install it into a bin directory.

```sh
mkdir bin
```
_Note the [composer site](http://getcomposer.org) has more detailed instructions for installation, the following is a small simplification_
```sh
php -r "copy('https://getcomposer.org/installer', 'composer-setup.php');"
php composer-setup.php --install-dir=bin
php -r "unlink('composer-setup.php');"
```

### Download dependencies

Simply run the install command to download the dependencies

```sh
php ./bin/composer.phar install --no-dev
```

_The 'no-dev' option prevents the testing dependencies for the library from being installed to save space/bandwidth_

### Use the library

inside acme-corp/index.php

```php
require_once(__DIR__ . '/interfax-php/vendor/autoload.php');

use Interfax\Client;

$interfax = new Client(['username' => 'username', 'password' => 'password']);
// etc
```

### Deployment

When it comes to deploying the project, the following paths will be required:

```
acme-corp/interfax-php/src/
acme-corp/interfax-php/vendor/
```

The rest of the files can safely be ignored.